Author:      Nick Chen
Date:        February 13th, 2014
Description: Your task is to write a script that determines which words in this
             corpus appear in their plural form more often than in their
             singular form. Write out these words, and the percentage of the
             time they are pluralized, to a file.  Sort the results from most to
             least frequently pluralized. Include a reasonable threshold for the
             number of times a word has to appear for it to count.

             Make simplifying assumptions (and please describe the assumptions
             you're making in your comments). While we expect your code to
             recognize the most common patterns for pluralizing words, for
             example, we do not necessarily expect it to know that "corpora" is
             the plural of "corpus".

             You may use any external libraries or data you wish.  Please submit
             your code in python whenever you'd like.

Notes:       Liberal use of stackoverflow, Google, and Python docs was made.  I
             am not the most adept Python programmer, but I did try to adhere to
             good programming and commenting practices.  I have deviated from
             the two of the PEP8 guidelines.
             
             Due to my background using vim, I have deviated from following E221
             (multiple spaces before operator), as I think it looks better to
             have the LHS and RHS of multiple variables lined up (in this case,
             primarily on the globals).
             
             I have also deviated from E702 (multiple statements on one line)
             because I felt that defaultdict was more elegant than:
                if word not in d:
                    d[word] = 1
                else:
                    d[word] += 1

            Furthermore, the following simplifying assumptions have been made:
                * I have taken "plural form more often than in their singular
                  form" to mean "strictly more often."
                * Only nouns may be plural.  Though verbs may be plural when
                  referring to a third person entity (as in the case of "He has
                  a dog" vs "They have a dog" or "He eats a taco" vs "They eat
                  tacos"), I assumed that that the objective was to do this for
                  nouns.  Pronouns may also be plural (they, we, us, them), but
                  because these do not have a clear singular counterpart, I have
                  chosen to exclude them.
                * Rules of plurality have been left to the inflect module.
                  Certain cases do cause inflect to break (one that I found was
                  "two-by-fours," so I have written a weak wrapper to attempt to
                  circumvent such problems (it does happen to recognize
                  "corpora," though! :-) ).
                * Certain words have multiple recognized plural forms.  One such
                  example is the infamous "octopus."  Both "octopodes" and
                  "octopuses" are considered valid plural forms of "octopus,"
                  however their statistics are not combined.  "Octopuses" and
                  "octopodes" will be compared individually against "octopus,"
                  so it is entirely possible that words that come from Latin or
                  Ancient Greek may incorrectly not appear in the list.  For
                  example, if "octopodes" appears 3 times, "octopuses" occurs 4
                  times, and "octopus" occurs 5 times, neither "octopodes" nor
                  "octopuses" will appear in the list.
                * Certain words are inconsistently labeled in brown_corpus.  The
                  most flagrant violators are numbers and units.  "cm." for
                  example, shows up both as "nn" and "nns".

            This README and code is intended only for Catherine Havasi and other
            employees of Luminoso. Please do not redistribute either the code or
            the question to non-employees of Luminoso.


Tested on:
    Python 2.7.5
    GCC 4.2.1
    Apple LLVM 5.0
    clang-500.0.68
    on darwin

Dependencies:
    Python 2.6/7 

    inflect: 
        Documentation: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/inflect
        Installation: pip install -e git+https://github.com/benthor/inflect.py#egg=inflect

How to run:
    This script can either be run with no arguments, in which case it will
    attempt to use "./brown_corpus/" as the corpus and "output.txt" as the
    output file.  Be warned that no check is made to make sure that an existing
    "output.txt" is not clobbered.

    python Luminoso.py
    python Luminoso.py [CORPUS_PATH] [OUTPUT_FILE]
